While BTC donations are preferred, if you wish to donate to the author, Con
Kolivas, in LTC, please submit your donations to:

Lc8TWMiKM7gRUrG8VB8pPNP1Yvt1SGZnoH

Otherwise, please donate in BTC as per the main README.

---

Scrypt mining, AKA litecoin mining, for GPU is completely different to sha256
used for bitcoin mining. The algorithm was originally developed in a manner
that it was anticipated would make it suitable for mining on CPU but NOT GPU.
Thanks to some innovative work by Artforz and mtrlt, this was proven to be
wrong. However, it has very different requirements to bitcoin mining and is a
lot more complicated to get working well. Note that it is a ram dependent
workload, and requires you to have enough system ram as well as fast enough
GPU ram. If you have less system ram than your GPU has, it may not be possible
to mine at any reasonable rate.

There are 5 main parameters to tuning scrypt, all of which are optional for
further fine tuning. When you start scrypt mining with the --scrypt option,
cgminer will fail IN RANDOM WAYS. They are all due to parameters being outside
what the GPU can cope with.

NOTE that if it does not fail at startup, the presence of hardware errors (HW)
are a sure sign that you have set the parameters too high.


DRIVERS AND OPENCL SDK

The choice of driver version for your GPU is critical, as some are known to
break scrypt mining entirely while others give poor hashrates. As for the
OpenCL SDK installed, for AMD it must be version 2.6 or later.


Step 1 on linux:
export GPU_MAX_ALLOC_PERCENT=100
If you do not do this, you may find it impossible to scrypt mine. You may find
a value of 40 is enough and increasing this further has little effect.

export GPU_USE_SYNC_OBJECTS=1
may help CPU usage a little as well.

On windows the same commands can be passed via a batch file if the following
lines are in the .bat before starting cgminer:
setx GPU_MAX_ALLOC_PERCENT 100
setx GPU_USE_SYNC_OBJECTS 1

--intensity XX (-I XX)

Just like in bitco